[SOUND]
We have so
far designed and analyzed an algorithm for
the set cover problem.
Let's us know try to
design a better algorithm.
What are the weaknesses of
the algorithm we have so far?
Let's see.
It's an iterated randomized rounding
algorithm, that gives as an output
a collection of sets that is a set
cover with high probability, and
has a cost that, on average,
is pretty good, ln(n) plus a constant OPT.
However, neither of these
things are guaranteed.
It's not guaranteed to be a set cover.
And the cost is not guaranteed to be
at most login plus three times opt.
So let's try to deal with
the first of these weaknesses.
The algorithm we have so far,
Is not always guaranteed
to give us as an output something
that is a proper set cover.
It is not always correct.
It's only correct with high probability.
So, let's try to design an algorithm
that outputs something that
always is a set cover.
All right.
So what are we going to do if we want
the output to always be a set cover?
What we want is an algorithm
that gives us an output,
a collection of sets that always
is a set cover guaranteed and
with average cost at most O(ln(n)).
Well, the answer is it's easy to
design a variant of the algorithm
to try and get that.
What is the variant?
Instead of repeating our sampling a fixed
number of times, ln(n)+3, what do we do?
If after this number of times,
we still don't have a set cover.
Let's just continue and
let us stop once we have a set cover.
So the obvious solution is to fix
the algorithm by replacing the condition,
repeat a fixed number of times,
by the condition,
repeat until the output is a set cover.
So, this is the algorithm.
Repeat, for every set we put S in
the cover with pr proportional
to the value of the fractional
variable in the LP solution.
If it's not yet in our correctional sets,
until what we have in our
collection is a set cover.
Equivalently we can write an algorithm
that is essentially the same,
but a little bit cleaner to analyze.
What is it?
Here we have a sequence of
repetitions some number of times, and
at each repetition, we have a for
loop where in parallel we take
every set with priority x sub s.
Instead, let's do it one by one.
Let's repeat, choose one set,
one set but with the same probability,
probability x sub s, or
rather, let's normalize it so
that it is a proper distribution so
that the sum of every our set equals 1.
So we choose set S with probability
proportional to x sub S,
x sub S divided by the sum over
every set of x of S prime.
Once we have chosen this set, we put it
in the cover, if it's not there yet, and
we repeat until we have a set cover.
So this, let us call this the sample and
integrate algorithm.
Repeat pick a set at random
where set S is taken with
probability proportion to x of S, the
fraction or variable given as an algorithm
put of the linear program relaxation put
it in the cover if its not there yet.
And repeat until you have a set cover.
Now we have a nice algorithm
that always outputs a set cover.
Let us see, analyze it to
analyze the cost of the output.
This will be the objective
of our next section.